IP Allow docs (#1240)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/manage/projects.md

By default, Neon allows IP addresses from 0.0.0.0, which means that Neon accepts connections from any IP address. Once you configure IP Allow by adding IP addresses or ranges, only those IP addresses will be allowed to access to Neon.

<Admonition type="note">
Currently, Neon only supports [IPv4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Protocol_version_4).
</Admonition>

You configure **IP Allow** for a project using the Neon Console, CLI, or API:

<Tabs labels={["Neon Console", "CLI", "API"]}>

<TabItem>

1. Select a project in the Neon console.
2. On the Neon **Dashboard**, select **Settings**.
3. Select **IP Allow**.
    ![IP Allow configuration](/docs/manage/ip_allow.png)
4. Specify the IP addresses you want to permit.
5. Optionally, select **Apply to primary branch only** to apply the allowlist to your project's [primary branch](/docs/manage/branches#primary-branch) only
5. Click **Apply changes**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem>

The [Neon CLI projects command](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/cli-projects) supports IP Allow configuration. For example, this command configures IP for an existing Neon project:

```bash

> neonctl projects update still-bird-22384887 --ip-allow 127.0.0.1 192.168.2.1/24 --ip-primary-only

Reviewer: @Shridhad, did we release it?

Reviewer 2: No, we did not. We are still holding the release as we have one discussion ongoing -  https://neondb.slack.com/archives/C036U0GRMRB/p1702912927587379 
cc: @lpetkov

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem>

The [Create project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/createproject) and [Update project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/updateproject) methods support **IP Allow** configuration. For example, this API configures **IP Allow** for an existing Neon project:

```bash
curl --request PATCH \
     --url https://console.neon.tech/api/v2/projects/project_id \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'authorization: Bearer $NEON_API_KEY' \
     --header 'content-type: application/json' \
     --data '
{
  "project": {
    "settings": {
      "allowed_ips": {
        "primary_branch_only": true,
        "ips": [

>           "192.168.1.15, 192.168.1.16, 192.168.1.20-192.168.1.30, 192.168.1.0/24S"

Reviewer: it should be an array of strings, shouldn't it?

Author: removed for now

        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

#### How to specify IP addresses

You can define an allowlist with individual IP addresses, IP ranges, or [CIDR notation](/docs/reference/glossary#cidr-notation). A combination of these options is also permitted. Multiple entries, whether they are the same or of different types, must be separated by a comma.

- **Add individual IP addresses**: You can add individual IP addresses that you want to allow. This is useful for granting access to specific users or devices. This example represents a single IP address:

>   ```ini

Reviewer 3: This renders with the first two sections red. So `192.168` is red while the rest is white. Should we change from `ini` to just plaintext for this block?

  192.168.1.15
  ```

- **Define IP ranges**: For broader access control, you can define IP ranges. This is useful for allowing access from a company network or a range of known IPs. This example range includes all IP addresses from `192.168.1.20` to `192.168.1.30`: 

  ```ini
  192.168.1.20-192.168.1.30
  ```

- **Use CIDR notation**: For more advanced control, you can use [CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) notation](/docs/reference/glossary#cidr-notation). This is a compact way of defining a range of IPs and is useful for larger networks or subnets. Using CIDR notation can be advantageous when managing access to branches with numerous potential users, such as in a large development team or a company-wide network.

  This CIDR notation example represents all 256 IP addresses from  `192.168.1.0` to `192.168.1.255`. 

  ```ini
  192.168.1.0/24
  ```

> A combined example using all three options above, specified as a comma-separated list, would appear similar to the following:

Reviewer 3: Should we mention that white space is ignored?

Author: Added.

4. Use the slider to select the history retention period.
5. Click **Save**.

### Configure the IP Allowlist

> The IP Allowlist is a security feature avialable to [Neon Pro Plan](/docs/introduction/pro-plan) users that restricts access to the branch where your database resides to only those IP addresses that you specify, providing an added layer of security for your data. In Neon, the IP Allowlist is applied to all branches by default. Optionally, you can apply the IP Allowlist to your project's [primary branch](/docs/manage/branches#primary-branch) only. For instance, you might want to restrict access to the primary branch to a handful of trusted IPs while allowing broader access to development branches. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Available to [Neon Pro Plan](/docs/introduction/pro-plan) users, the IP Allowlist feature provides an added layer of security for your data, restricting access to the branch where your database resides to only those IP addresses that you specify. In Neon, the IP Allowlist is applied to all branches by default. Optionally, you can instead apply the IP Allowlist to your project's [primary branch](/docs/manage/branches#primary-branch) only. For instance, you might want to restrict access to the primary branch to a handful of trusted IPs while allowing broader access to development branches. 
```

5. Optionally, select **Apply to primary branch only** to apply the allowlist to your project's [primary branch](/docs/manage/branches#primary-branch) only
5. Click **Apply changes**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem>

The [Neon CLI projects command](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/cli-projects) supports IP Allow configuration. For example, this command configures IP for an existing Neon project:

```bash

> projects update still-bird-22384887 --ip-allow 127.0.0.1 192.168.2.1/24 --ip-primary-only

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
neonctl projects update still-bird-22384887 --ip-allow 127.0.0.1 192.168.2.1/24 --ip-primary-only
```
